Okay.
So in the previous lesson, we tackle the issue of only displaying the sub nav.
If the user was logged in.
Now I want to handle the other issue which is only displaying the number of jobs matched.
If the user is specifically on the jobs page of our app now we run into a little bit of a problem here,
which is we haven't talked a lot about the idea of different pages in a view app, how we can navigate
from page to page.
We are just starting out and learning the core view fundamentals and I want to make sure that we build
incrementally one little bit of knowledge at a time.
So what we're going to do here is come up with a very simple, basic implementation of this.
We're not actually going to solve it the right way, but we're going to solve it in a way that should
be suitable for now.
And then we're going to come back to this idea, as with many other things later in the course, when
we introduce the right view tools to solve this problem.
In addition, what I want to try to do here is to follow a TDD approach.
So we're going to write our tests first and we're going to write our tests for this sub nav component
because this is where the logic is going to live.
Here is where we are deciding whether or not to render the number of jobs matched.
Right now, it is always being rendered, but we're obviously going to make this logic conditional in
just a moment.
So let's write our tests for this component.
So in our tests directory, we have our unit folder and our components folder.
In here, I'm going to create a new test file.
Sub nav test.
Yes, we're going to follow the exact same protocol we followed with our previous test.
So I'll begin by importing the mount function from view test utils.
And then we also need to import the component we're going to be testing, which is called sub nav.
And from our top level as our C directory, we have our components folder and our some NAV component
is going to be in there.
And then of course we're going to use the described function from just let's describe what we're testing.
It is going to be the sub nav component and I'm going to provide a arrow function here and in here.
What I'm going to do is add two different described blocks because there's two states or criterias under
which I want to test.
This one is when the user is on the job page and that's when we want to see that green text that says
this number of jobs matched.
And the other pathway or the other branch of logic is when the user is not on the jobs page, they should
not see that element that shows them the number of jobs matched.
So I'm going to write my describes here when the user is on the job page will be my first and I'll copy
and paste it down below.
And my second one will be when user is not on jobs page.
All right, let's go ahead and start wiring these tests up.
So as we know, we provide a second argument to describe.
And in here I'm going to write my IT function.
Here's where I actually describe what I'm testing.
So regarding the seventh component, when the user is on the job page, what do I want the sub nav component
to do?
It should displays job count, it displays job count.
Perfect.
So that's a nice user description.
And let's start things off as always by using our mount function to mount our component, which is sub
now.
All right.
So at this point, I'm going to violate a best practice that I talked about earlier in the course,
which is manually setting the properties of our data here.
I'm going to do that again for the reasons that I talked about at the beginning of this lesson, in
that we don't know the right way to solve this problem yet because we don't know about view routing,
in other words, routing from one page to another.
So the simplest way I can think about this is the simplest way I could solve this problem is imagine
our subnet has a piece of data on it called on job results page and that will be either a true or a
false.
And if the user is on the job results page, which will be that Boolean data property, then I should
see that job count appear.
Otherwise I should not see it appear.
Right.
Not the best implementation, but the simplest one that I can think of knowing the things we know.
So I'm going to provide a second argument to my mount function.
This is our configuration object for our Mountain View component, and as a reminder, we can provide
a data method here and return our data object that this subnet nav component will have.
So again, we haven't written this logic yet, but this is TDD, so we're writing it.
We're writing our tests first, assuming that the component will have this and it will affect how the
component runs.
Again, not perfect because I don't like using data because it is reaching into the implementation and
mandating what the implementation is going to look like.
But we're going to come back to this later in the course and make these tests better.
So I'm going to have a property called on job results page.
And for this test, I'm going to set it to.
True.
All right.
And what do I want to happen when my data property called I'm job results page is set to true.
I want to be able to find some element, some kind of HTML in my subnet that should display the job
count.
And I'm going to use the data test ideas that we talked about earlier.
I don't know what that element will be.
I don't know whether it's going to be a view component or some H2 element.
I don't know if it's a Div or a P or anything.
I'm just going to search for it and then check that it exists.
So I'm going to call whatever that element is, job count, and I'm going to call the find method on
my wrapper.
And as a reminder, the syntax for looking for an attribute is to provide a string and then a pair of
square brackets.
Here I specify the attribute that I want to look for, and I'm going to look for an attribute called
data test.
Again, that name is up to us, but it seems like a fitting name for an attribute strictly for the purposes
of testing.
And then I'm going to expect this data test attribute to have a value which I'll provide in my single
quotes, and that will be job count.
So both of those names are up to me, both the attribute and its corresponding value.
I do also want to take a quick second to talk about the differences between the find method, which
we've been using as well as the Get method, which you may also have.
See sometimes when you're looking at test.
So the way the find method works is if it's not able to find a corresponding element, the test will
not fail.
Rather, the find method will return an object that sort of is like undefined.
It represents nothingness or nothingness, but the test won't immediately fail in comparison.
If we use the get method, its logic is exactly the same.
It's just like find in that it's going to look for whatever we provide here.
But if it's not able to find it, the test will fail on this line.
So it will never get to the next line at all.
Right.
So if it's absolutely critical in a test that you validate that something exists before you proceed
to the next action, then you would want to use get in this example.
I want to get either the valid found element or nothing at all, because on the very next line, I want
to test whether that job count element exists, right?
So if I fail on this line, I'll never get a chance to get to my assertion.
So I want to use find, which is a little less strict and that allows me on the next line to take whatever
job count returns.
It could be a valid element or it could be a object that represents nothingness or the absence of an
element.
And remember, on these view objects that the test utils library gives to us, there is a method called
exists and that exists.
Method will give us a boolean.
The boolean will be true if that element, whatever it is, exists and it will be false if it does not.
So whatever the find method returns is perfect for the exists method because that allows us to get to
this assertion on line 16 no matter what.
So of course if we are on the jobs page and we have this property, such a true whatever we find, we
do expect it to exist, right?
We do expect that job count to exist somewhere on the page and then we can write our complimentary test
down below.
So when the user is not on the job page, I'm going to provide my arrow function here.
I'm going to write a description that's probably going to be the opposite.
So it does not display job count.
And for this test, what I can do is copy just about everything we have here and modify.
So right here we can assume that our data property called on job results page will be false.
Again, this knows too much about the implementation, but that's okay.
We're still going to look for the exact same element or component, whatever it is that has this attribute
on the page.
But this time around, view should not find anything.
To be more specific, the view test utils should not find anything matching that description because
it should not be on the page if we're not on the job results page.
So when I call the exists method on whatever it is we find, we expect it not to exist.
So this should be false.
Okay.
So let me go ahead and run these tests and make sure that they are failing, which is what TV expects.
They should both be failing and we should then write the passing implementation.
So I'm going to run NPM, run test, colon, watch to run just in watch mode.
And we should see some failures here.
And there we go.
We're seeing some failures.
We can see it's unable to find an awesome icon.
We'll come back to that in just a moment.
But more importantly, we see here we are getting these failures up above.
Especially for this test, when the user is on job page, it displays job count.
It's not passing.
So it's expecting to find this job count a value for the data attached attribute.
It's not finding it, so it can't say that it exists.
So this test is passing.
The reason the one below our second one is passing is because it's expecting to not find it and it is
indeed not finding it at all.
So that test is passing, but that is a false positive because we haven't implemented anything regarding
this logic yet.
We're going to do that in the very next lesson.